## Chapter 06 Brain Teaser

###  
___________________

### 6.1 You have 20 bottles of pills. 19 bottles have 1.0 gram pills, but one has pills of weight T.I grams. Given a scale that provides an exact measurement, how would you find the heavy bottle? You can only use the scale once.
* Take one pill from Bottle #1, two pills from Bottle #2, three pills from Bottle #3, and so on. Weigh this mix of pills. If all pills were one grameach,thescalewouldread210grams(1 + 2+...+20 = 20* 21/2 = 210). Any "overage"must come from the extra 0.1 gram pills. This formula will tell you the bottle number: (weight - 210 grams) / 0.1 grams. So, if the set of pills weighed 211.3 grams,then Bottle #13 would have the heavy pills.

### 6.2 There is an 8x8 chess board in which two diagonally opposite corners have been cut off. Youare given 31 dominos, and a single domino can cover exactly two squares. Can you use the 31 dominos to cover the entire board? Prove your answer (by providing an example or showing why it's impossible).* The chess board initially has 32 black and 32 white squares. By removing opposite corners (which must be the same color), we're left with 30 of one color and 32 of the other color. Let's say, for the sake of argument, that we have 30 black and 32 white squares. Each domino we set on the board will always take up one white and one black square. Therefore, 31 dominos will take up 31 white squares and 31 black squares exactly. On this board, however, we must have 30 black squares and 32 white squares. Hence, it is impossible.
### 6.3 You have a five-quart jug, a three-quart jug, and an unlimited supply of water (but no measuring cups). How would you come up with exactly four quarts of water? Note that the jugs are oddly shaped, such that filling up exactly "half" of the jug would be impossible.
* As long as the two jug sizes are relatively prime (i.e., have no common prime factors), you can find a pour sequencefor any value between one and the sum of the jug sizes(3 to 8)### 6.4 A bunch of people are living on an island, when a visitor comes with a strange order: all blue-eyed people must leave the island as soon as possible. There will be a flight out at 8:00pm every evening. Each person can seeeveryone else's eye color, but they do not know their own (nor is anyone allowed to tell them). Additionally, they do not know how many people have blue eyes, a/though they do know that at least one person does. How many days will it take the blue-eyed people to leave?* Let's apply the Base Case and Build approach. If c men have blue eyes, it will take c nights for the blue-eyed men to leave. All will leave on the same night.### 6.5 There is a building of 100 floors. Ifan egg drops from the Nth floor or above, it will break. If it's dropped from any floor below, it will not break. You're given two eggs. Find N, while minimizing the number of drops for the worst case.
* Our goal is to create a system for dropping Egg1 such that the number of drops is as consistent as possible, whether Egg 1 breaks on the first drop or the last drop.1. A perfectly load-balanced system would be one in which Drops(Egg 1) + Drops(Egg 2) is always the same, regardless of where Egg 1 breaks.2. For that to be the case, since each drop of Egg1 takes one more step, Egg2 is allowed one fewer step.3. We must, therefore, reduce the number of steps potentially required by Egg 2 by one drop each time. For example, if Egg 1 is dropped on floor 20 and then floor 30, Egg 2 is potentially required to take 9 steps. When we drop Egg 1 again, we must reduce potential Egg 2 steps to only 8. That is, we must drop Egg 1 at floor 39.4. We know,therefore,Egg1 must start at floorX, then go up by X-l floors, then X-2, ..., until it gets to 100.
5. Solvefor Xin:X + (X-l) + (X-2) + ... + 1 = 160.X (X + 1) / 2 = 100 -> X = 14. We go to floor 14, then 27, then 39, ....This takes 14 steps in the worse case. As in many other maximizing / minimizing problems, the key in this problem is "worst case balancing."6. http://datagenetics.com/blog/july22012/index.html


### 6.6 There are 100 closed lockers in a hallway. A man begins by opening all 100 lockers. Next, he closes every second locker. Then, on his third pass, he toggles every third locker (closes it if it is open or opens it if it is closed). This process continues for / 00 passes, such that on each pass i, the man toggles every ith locker. After his 100th pass in the hallway, in which he toggles only locker #100,how many lockers are open?* A door n is toggled once for each factor of n, including itself and 1. That is, door 15 is toggled on rounds 1,3,5, and 15. A door is left open if the number of factors (which we will call x) is odd. The value x is odd if n is a perfect square. There are 10 perfect squares. Therefore, there are 10 lockers open at the end of this process.